All right, everyone, and welcome to one more new chapter.
In this chapter, we are going to integrate better auth inside our XO application.
Right now we have a great understanding how we can integrate username and password authentication,
how we can integrate OAuth authentication, be it Google, be it GitHub and in future if
you wanted to integrate.
something else so you can also integrate that without any issue.
So in this chapter our main focus is to focus how you can implement better auth inside your
application, but before that we need to understand what is better auth.
So, if I simply visit to their website, so they are saying the most comprehensive authentication
framework for TypeScript, alright and they support for popular frameworks, email and
password authentication, support multiple OAuth providers, multi-factor authentication,
organization members and invitations such a nice feature.
a lot more features and plug-in and if you read just the testimonials from the CEO of
Versailles, a creator of augmented HQ, a lot of things.
I mean you can just simply come into here and read more about it.
Perfect, so roll your own auth with the confidence in minutes.
They support in Nexts, Next, Svelte, Astro, Solid Start, React, Hono, Expo, this is what
we are going to use and TenStack Start.
Perfect, so now if I just simply go to the docs and say better auth is a framework agnostic
universal authentication and authorization framework for TypeScript.
It provides a comprehensive set of features out of the box and include a plug-in ecosystem
such a nice ecosystem itself that simplify adding advanced functionalities whether you
need two-factor authentication, passkey, multi-tenancy, multi-session support, multi-session support,
or even enterprise features like SSO creating your own IDP a lot of things I mean and again
if you just simply coming to here and if you find integration and inside this integration
if you search for expo yes look at that you can simply.
Press here and read it.
Expo is a popular framework for building cross platform app with react native.
Yes, we know that better auth support both Expo native and web apps.
So how you can basically install it?
First of all, configure a better auth backend.
Perfect.
So first step they are basically saying you is to configure here, but but definitely we
need to install a bunch of things.
Perfect.
So, I think first of all, let's simply go towards the get started and installation part.
And first of all, let me add the better auth.
So, let me simply open one more new terminal and let me simply paste bun add better auth.
Okay.
And after adding this we can definitely wait for a few seconds.
And after this what you can do you need to set the environment variable simply say generate
secret yes.
So this is the second step let me simply copy this and after copying this let me close everything
Open dot ENV.
Inside this, I can simply paste this one and let me change dot env to environment variable.
Perfect.
Next thing is they are asking you to set the base URL.
So base URL is the URL on which your application is running.
So I think 8081 is the correct base URL.
Nice.
Create a file named Auth.ts in one of these locations.
So let me just simply copy this location.
After copying this, let me close everything.
Let's go inside the lib and we already have one file with the name of Auth.
No problem.
I can simply create better auth.ts and then I can simply paste it easy nice and then next
is ignore everything.
Now let again go inside the integration and search for expo and then simply press here.
After pressing it again, first step they are saying you is create this backend endpoint
inside the auth and into auth a spread, let me just simply copy this, I will show you
what, close everything, API, perfect, simply open one new folder and paste this, simply
paste this auth.
Let me fix it.
And then inside this auth we need to create a plus API.
Perfect.
So, I can simply say plus API dot ts and then I can simply copy this and paste it.
And let me just quickly fix it.
Now you can see we are trying to import better auth, but not from this auth.
from the better auth nice ok.
So this is the first step we need to do.
After this what is the next step is install better auth expo.
If you are using expo API routes you can follow the step below instead ok.
So they are basically saying you.
to install better auth and better auth expo and also install better expo network.
Okay, first of all, let me reinstall all of these things.
We already have better auth, but no problem.
Let me rerun it.
All right.
And after this, next I need to say, bun add expo network.
All right, and after this we also need to install expo linking as expo web browser expo
constants.
Okay, so let me copy this once again and let me paste it.
So now we have expo linking, expo web browser and expo constant.
And next is you need to add the expo plugin on your server.
So add the expo plugin to your better auth server.
So let me once again copy this and go inside your better auth and simply paste it.
So you will see right now.
We have a better auth slash expo, this is a plug-in we are importing and simply calling
it here and then we are using email and password.
In same way you can even search for something known as social providers and inside the social
provider you can have a GitHub.
which accept a client ID and you can even have a client secret.
In the same way I can do configuration for my Google.
So this is for your Google, this is for your, I mean this is for your GitHub and this is
for your Google.
Alright, now you can see like we can use email password, we can even use social providers
be it GitHub, Google, Apple and whatever you wanted to use.
After this, they are saying you is to install better auth client, initialize better auth
client.
So to initialize better auth in your expo app, you need to call create auth client with
the base URL of your better auth backend.
Make sure to import the client from /react.
Okay we will see that and make sure you install the expo secure store package in your expo.
We already have it but no problem we can again install it just for confirmation.
Alright, you can see in less than 200 milliseconds, we have it.
Nice.
And you need to also import client plugin from better auth expo slash client and pass
it to the plugin array when initialize the auth client.
No problem.
Simply copy this much.
Yep.
And coming to here and then you can again call it as.
betterauth client.ts and then simply paste this.
So now you will see for the base URL we have this inside the plugin we have expo client
and the scheme.
So I think the scheme of our application is bit different.
What is the scheme?
Scheme is module 13.
So let's just change this.
And let me also change this and this is the secure store which is coming from secure store
not rocket science I mean just a basic configuration.
Scheme and trusted origin yes we already have the scheme better auth uses deep link okay
to redirect user back to your app after authentication no problem.
To enable this, you need to add your app scheme to the trusted origin list in betterauth config.
So inside the plugin we have it.
No problem.
I think we have something known as trusted origin.
Does we have that here?
Maybe in betterauth?
I don't know.
Let me just search for it.
So, now you can see that we have a trusted origin and trusted origin will going to contain
a lot of things.
I will show you what is that.
So, first thing is the your app scheme perfect.
So, my app scheme is definitely yes this is you basically need.
Right now what I will do this is a basic scheme and this is wild card support for all path
following this scheme.
So I will copy this wild card and coming to here and I will paste it.
I will try to paste it and then yes we need to convert this into module 13.
Nice.
And after this during development expo uses the exp /less scheme with your devices local
IP address to support this you can use wildcard to match common local IP ranges.
Nice.
So, I think I can also copy this.
The wild card pattern for should only used in development in production use your specific
scheme exactly I mean that is making sense for us.
So what I will do I will remove it alright and then I will paste it.
So first thing I wanted to change it instead of my app I will change this to module 13
And then I think everything is fine.
So this is all the trusted matching trusted range within any port and path.
And this is just to match the deep linking things.
So that's why we need it.
Perfect.
And you also need to configure your Metro Wunder.
To resolve better auth export, you need to enable unstable enable package export in your
Metro config.
Does we have our Metro config?
Let me search for it.
So I think we don't have any Metro config.
We have app.json.
We have EAS JSON but we do not have anything related to Metro.
In case you do not have Metro, in your project you need to run this command.
So, let us run it, no problem.
me coming to here and simply run bunx expo customize metro config.js
So, now we have this Metroconfig file perfect and inside this Metroconfig file what we can
do we can just simply make this as true.
Can we just close everything?
and go inside the Metro config.js and paste this file.
Alright, so config.resolver unstable enable package export as just do this.
This is what the documentation is saying to us.
So we are going to do it anyway and don't forget to clear the cache after making changes.
Okay, so let me come into here and let me close my currently running application and
run bunx.
Exposed start hyphen hyphen clear.
So this is basically going to clear all the cash that we have and hopefully this will
open into my development build.
All right there was a problem.
No.
Okay.
I can maybe close this and reopen my app.
Okay, Android bundled and nice and yep, now you can see that this is their opening.
This is the issue related to JWT, so it's fine, there is nothing inside our application
configuration.
Now, how you can basically use it?
So you can see that.
With better auth initialize you can now use the auth client to authenticate user in your
expo app.
Yes, now you are ready to authenticate your users.
Let me show you.
Okay, let me close this and let me just simply copy this file.
Perfect.
And after copying this file, what you can do?
Close everything and first thing is I wanted you to simply go inside the layout and right
now we don't need anything known as auth provider for now at least I don't need it.
I'll fix it in a while or maybe what I can do.
Yes, I think I do not need it.
Perfect.
But then I have to change a lot of things.
So what we can do for now, I do not need this even.
Okay.
And for is logged in, what I will try to do is again maintain is logged in as a false.
Perfect.
Just for now, I will fix it in a while.
And then let go inside the login and let me paste the entire code that I have copied from
here.
This one easy.
Let me paste it.
So, you will see right now.
Let me import my auth client as well.
better auth client and if I save it hopefully this will work without any issue and yes now
you can see this is your email I know this is not looks good and this is your password
ok and the moment you and I can even show you the users data in a while just give me
a minute let me write now simply say suras.adderatesuras.com and for password I can simply say I will
this and the moment I press on login.
Okay so how we can basically confirm is this working or not is something is happening or
not okay.
So better auth user not found.
Okay so they are basically saying me user with this ID is not found because if I am
not wrong we are login for the first time.
Perfect, so maybe if I'm not wrong we need to sign up first then you can use it you can
see this is a sign in, in same way you can have sign up as well, yes, but then sign up
is going to accept you lot of things like the name, email and at least the password,
perfect.
So we already have the email, I can even accept the name from my user and I can have the state
variable related to the name.
And then I do have a this.
So now you can see we have a name.
Let me just put anything and again suraj@suraj.com and password is going to be simple.
Let me just open my terminal just to see I am not getting any error and yes now you will
see that this is.
compiled, one module is compiled and there is no error inside the console.
Now how you can check is the user is logged in or not?
So for that we have something very interesting.
Instead of this is logged in.
We have a very nice
You can simply say auth client dot use session.
Yes, we have something known as auth client dot use session and they give you something
known as data.
They even give you, let me show you, they even give you a spending state.
So, we can show here if we are in is if we don't have any data then we will simply return
and otherwise if we are logged in inside this data we have user and session as well.
The moment I save it look at that I am redirected to the home page.
Nice.
This is the beauty of better auth.
Let me show you how you can basically fetch the user information.
It's very easy.
If I simply go to my profile, perfect, instead of using this hook, I can simply upcoming
to here and copy this, paste this and again I can import this auth client from here.
And if we don't have any data and we are in pending state, so instead of this, I will
try to return a view.
Or maybe that will not this I will try to return a view that will show us a loading
that is much better.
And then if we have a data, data contain user and session.
So let's go with user.
Okay then what I will try to do first of all let me grab my user so I can say user not
this like this.
Now, this can have how I can extract it.
Yes, I can get like this and we can have even session as well.
Hopefully, I am right.
And, maybe, maybe I don't know I am right or not, I can do like this user is equals
to data dot user.
Yep.
And now if I save it and if I go to the profile, hopefully this will show something to us.
You will see we have a name.
Okay, we need to define the sign out button as well.
So let me define my sign out.
This will basically call the auth client dot sign out.
And now if I try to go to my profile and look at that, this is the name that I have put.
This is the email.
And the moment I say sign out, I am again into my.
login page.
This is the beauty of Off-Word.
This is the beauty of better auth.
You need not to do a lot lot lot of things, lot of state management.
You can directly do this and there is something very nice website.
I'm exactly don't remembering that.
Dice random image if I'm not wrong that is the name of the API that I'm using just give
me a minute.
Okay, so we have a very nice let me show you that if you just simply visit to this documentation
and this is the API URL you will get the images like this.
So right now we don't have any bitches.
So, what I can do I can simply use this and let me show you seed is equals to I think
default alright.
Let me try to sign up once again let me say this as Suraj Kumar Jha and email is again
to be suraj at the rate suraj2.
I don't know.
All right, let me go with it and then 123456789 and zero and the moment I simply press on
login and login if I go to my profile, hopefully I am able to see this.
No, it's okay.
But if I remove this and I can directly use the API.
So please show that if I reload it.
Definitely, if I go to my profile, I don't know for some reason the image is not showing
me if I visit.
Yes, I'm getting this one.
Then why that is not showing here.
It's fine if it's not showing we can't do anything so you can see that this is the image
that I am able to see.
Alright, so I figure out the problem and I think the problem is the SVG format.
What if I change this to PNG?
So yes look at that now you can see that this is how I'm showing this because you can't
directly render SVG inside this image component.
That's why we are not able to see anything.
But now you can see this is just a random image we are rendering for this user.
Perfect.
Let's move ahead and we'll see how we can integrate Google authentication.
So for implementing the Google and GitHub.
Very simple.
I can simply go to my login page and again you can design this as much as you want or
maybe I will design this for you give me a minute.
Alright guys so now you can see that in less than a few minutes I have just designed this
for you definitely I have used AI here.
So, you can see this is your definitely you can change this path instead of sign in you
can name this as sign up or maybe you can mostly design this inside the sign up page.
So, this is your full name, email and password.
Alright, so in same way I can also have the Google login.
So, how very easy.
So, for integrating the Google if I am not wrong.
Let me just search for it.
This is just a yes, you can see that this is how you can do the social sign in easy
for social sign in you just simply need this much of code and you are good to go.
Perfect, nice, so let me try to add buttons related to Google and GitHub as well.
Alright guys, so now you can see that I know this not looks that good but we have a Google
and GitHub button as well.
So I will show you where is that.
So this is your touchable opacity related to Google and this is your touchable opacity
related to GitHub.
are calling a function name as handle social sign up that accept a provider be it Google
or GitHub no problem no rocket science and then we are just simply calling this and again
this is not the right approach.
We need to use it instead of sign up this will your sign in.
Yep.
And the moment I save it so you can see the auth client sign in dot social and this is
a provider.
Let me try to log in with Google.
The moment I press on Google, hopefully this will work without any issue.
Okay.
Access block.
This app request is invalid.
Nice, if I just press on GitHub, definitely this will not work because we need to fix
our redirect URIs.
Interesting.
So how I can fix my redirect URIs?
So for fixing that, they must have, this will be converted to deep link, something like
this on the native.
Request to your server.
No, we don't want that.
We don't want it to use TRPC Expo client.
Scheme is used to deep link bank to the app.
User has authenticated user auth providers by default.
Scheme.
If you need to write this, you can pass the scheme option to the client.
Okay, I think how I can fix it.
That is the point now.
All right, let me figure out.
So I think the what we need to do if I if I'm just assuming it right, first of all, let
me go to my GitHub.
All right, and inside the GitHub, let me go to my settings, developer settings, 100% OAuth
app.
And what is the name of this app?
I don't know.
I'm just forget that.
I think that is expo-getabout if I am not wrong.
I think yes, this is what we have.
Let me just match that with the client ID y vs.
Okay.
So, if I go to my dot envs.
What is the client ID?
Yes, YVS.
Okay.
So, this is fine.
Alright.
One thing you need to change is this one.
Yep.
So, for that what do you need to do?
I will show you how I figured it out.
You need to search for integrations.
Alright and not integration actually.
I think the authentication is and search for GitHub inside this GitHub.
They have given you this callback URL.
So you just need to copy from here to here and then just update this much.
Okay, nice.
This is the first update inside your GitHub app.
Hopefully this will work in same way.
I can go to my Google cloud console and I will update that specific app as well.
which project I think the Google auth if I'm not wrong if I come remember that correctly
if I go to overview I hope I have
All right.
So inside the clients, we have this web client 2.
And then let me again coming to here search for Google and they have also given you this
for Google.
So also copy this and update this much.
Perfect.
Nice.
And then simply save it.
Hopefully, this will work now.
So if I just close this and first of all let me try to log in with Google and yes if I
just press my any ID that I have perfect and ok.
to resolve
Okay, VASM complete module 13 worker.
Okay, this is something related to that issue, but I think we are logged in successfully.
You can even see that this is what I am prompting here.
If I again press authorize.
So, there is some basic issue because there is something related to configuration maybe
if I am not wrong because this is working fine.
Okay, let me just see what is the actual issue that is happening here.
If I just go below, okay, you can see that I think this is related to this and this is
actually happening because of the Metro Bundler because as you know that we are using Expo
SQLite.
And that is basically trying to import some missing web assembly rated thing because of
that this issue is happening.
So you can completely ignore it.
If you just freshly create one new application and implement all of this, this is going to
work perfectly fine.
So no worries in it.
This is just simply because
In one folder structure we have did lot of different kind of authentication because of
that this problem is happening but with this, this is how you can implement credentials
login Google and GitHub and in same way you can go with Apple as well authentication inside
your expo app with the help of better auth.
So this is pretty much it for this chapter and see you next time.